Goblin Slayer and Priestess slid like shadows along a snowy path lined with log houses. The sun, peeking intermittently through the clouds, had already begun to sink, and soon it would be twilight. The goblins’ hour. This village didn’t have much time left.
Priestess gulped air as she ran. “I’ve never fought…in a village before…”
“There aren’t nearly as many obstacles as in a cave. Watch the shadows and watch out for attacks from above.” Even as he spoke, Goblin Slayer lifted his sword and flung it. It flew through the air, piercing the chest of a goblin who had scrambled up onto a rooftop.
“ORAAG?!”
The creature screamed and tumbled to the ground. Goblin Slayer pulled a hatchet from his belt. A flick of his wrist brought it down harder than a one-handed sword. He buried it in the skull of the goblin writhing on the ground.
“GAAROROROOOOOOORG?!”
It gave a long, choked death knell. Goblin Slayer seemed pleased by the sound. Not bad.
“That makes four.”
“Since there are six in the square, that means less than ten left, doesn’t it?”
Priestess squeezed her eyes shut, offering a prayer to the Earth Mother that the tiny demon might not lose his way on the road to the afterlife.
All mortal beings died once and once only; in this, everyone was the same. Death was the kindest and most equal thing in this world.
“Yes. And we don’t have much time to search.” Goblin Slayer jogged up to an intersection, then moved close to Priestess as if asking her to watch his back. To be suddenly so close to him—her heart began to race, even though she knew this was entirely platonic.
“They’ll have noticed the scream. They’ll be coming soon. Get ready.”
“Oh, r-right!”
Priestess nodded, gripped her sounding staff firmly, and brought her hands together at her chest.
Perhaps it was all the running and the nervousness that accounted for her elevated heart rate and her strangely hot face. There was no time for idle thoughts now, she told herself.
“Watch your feet. If you slip on the snow, you’ll die. And watch out for poisoned blades.”
“Right. Um…” Priestess looked at him questioningly. Cover. Overhead. Her feet and poisoned weapons. “So what you really mean is… Just watch out for everything, like usual.”
“Mm,” Goblin Slayer grunted.
She felt him nod rather than saw it, and it brought a smile to her face.
“That’s not much in the way of guidance.”
“Sorry.”
“Gosh. You… You really are hopeless, aren’t you?” She giggled, but it was mostly in hopes of masking how scared she was.
This was only one of many times when she and Goblin Slayer had fought together, just the two of them. But it was, perhaps, the first time she had been in the front with him like this.
Their party included five people now. Goblin Slayer was their only front-line specialist, but Lizard Priest was a fighter as well. A rearguard specialist like herself had very few chances to experience the full brunt of combat. She had to admit that every once in a while, she had grown impatient being protected by everyone else, but still…
It doesn’t matter. I have to make sure to do my job.
And anyway, she appreciated that everyone looked out for her.
She gripped her staff even tighter; she saw forms moving, obscured by the drifting snow.
“Looks like they’re here…”
“Make small movements with your weapon. All I need is a distraction. I can strike the finishing blow.”
“Yes, sir…!”
And then there was no more time for conversation.
The goblins, seeing that their opponents numbered only two, and one of them a woman, assaulted the intersection from all four directions at once.
“GAAORRR!!”
“GROOB!!”
“Five…!” Goblin Slayer said, striking the first goblin to attack with his hatchet as easily as if he were chopping firewood.
“GOROB?!”
The monster fell to the ground, the hatchet still buried in his forehead. Without slowing down, Goblin Slayer turned his shield on the creature to the left. The sharpened, polished edge doubled as a weapon, and it evoked a strangled cry from the second goblin when it split his head open.
The second creature stumbled back. Goblin Slayer didn’t hesitate to grab the dagger the goblin had stashed in his dirty loincloth.
“Hrr!”
He kicked the goblin in the stomach and sent him flying, then channeled the momentum into throwing the dagger he had stolen. It flew straight to a goblin who was rushing toward them with a pike. The creature began to claw at the dagger that had suddenly sprouted from his throat, then collapsed.
“Six.”
He stepped on the body of the first goblin he had killed and pulled out the hatchet, then promptly planted it in the head of the unfortunate second creature, who had been struggling to get up.
“Seven!”
The fight was many against only two—but one of those two was Goblin Slayer. He focused on what was in front of him, leaving his otherwise vulnerable back to Priestess. There were no walls for the monsters to attack from; he could see in all four directions, and that was all he needed. There was no enemy easier to overpower than goblins who had left their territory.
“Hah! Yah!”
Priestess, sweat beading on her forehead, was making small, quick movements with her staff. They were not unlike the dance she had learned for the ritual she performed at the festival; she drew on her long hours of practice as she fought.
She wasn’t dealing the goblins any serious blows; she was just keeping them at bay. Making sure they stayed back. Giving them something to think about. She only wanted to ensure they didn’t get too close. She might have been able to keep them back even farther if she made larger swings, but that risked one of them finding an opening, and then it would all be over.
Besides, I’ve got Goblin Slayer behind me.
He was watching her back, and she was watching his. She felt both relief and a sense of duty, the two mingling in a strange excitement.
“Ah…!” Suddenly, she felt Goblin Slayer begin to move to the right. Without a moment’s hesitation, she followed him. They turned, as if in a dance, so that he was now facing where she had been.
“Eight… Nine!”
Goblin Slayer’s hatchet began mowing down the goblins Priestess had held off. No matter how many times she heard it, the girl could never quite get used to the sound of a heavy blade cutting through flesh and bone. Especially not when she was faced with goblins, their eyes alight with greed and hatred, crawling over the corpses of their companions to get at her.
The bone-chilling terror of that first adventure still hadn’t left her. And it likely never would.
“Ya—ah?!”
There was a thock as one of the goblins caught the end of her sounding staff. A moment’s struggle soon began to tell in favor of the goblin. Even the weak monster could overpower Priestess’s thin arms. With his strength, the goblin could easily pull her off her feet, claw at her throat.
Priestess went pale; the image of one of her former party members, a female wizard who had met a gruesome end, flashed in the back of her mind.
“O Earth Mother, abounding in mercy, grant your sacred light to we who are lost in darkness!”
“GORRUURUAAAA?!?!”
But she wouldn’t let it end that way. She had gained a great deal of experience since then. The Holy Light miracle seared the goblin’s eyes without mercy. The creature fell back, clutching his face, and Priestess’s staff nearly jumped back at her.
The miracle didn’t do any damage, but everything had its uses. Those without imagination were the first to die. That was something she had learned from Goblin Slayer.
“Ten…!”
And Goblin Slayer, of course, was not one to miss a goblin who had left him an opening. The hatchet seemed to trade places with her; it sliced clean through the goblin’s throat. The monster spasmed and rolled on the ground. Its neck hung at a strange angle. Another blow. The last one.
Goblin Slayer produced this pile of corpses as naturally as breathing. Now, he turned expressionlessly to Priestess.
“Are you hurt?”
“N-no.”
His question was as direct as always. Priestess quickly patted herself down to be sure. Even if she didn’t think she was injured, it was possible she had sustained a graze somewhere. With the goblins using poisoned weapons, even a small wound could be deadly.
“I—I think I’m all right.”
“I see.” Goblin Slayer nodded. He inspected the bloody hatchet and gave a soft cluck of his tongue. It wasn’t greasy, but the blade was beginning to dull from cutting through so much bone. He tossed it away and, for the second time, drew the little bow on his back.
Almost as an afterthought, he said, “Holy Light. That was a good choice.”
“Huh…?” It took her a moment to figure out what he was talking about. Is he…praising me? “Oh! Uh—um, th-thank you…?” He really is, isn’t he?
She felt a happy warmth start in her cheeks, but before it could spread any further, she suppressed the smile that loomed. “Heh-heh.”
Just that little chuckle escaped her. This was no time to savor the compliment. Instead, she kept her face neutral, gripped her staff almost imploringly, and offered up prayers for the dead. Goblin Slayer wouldn’t stop her from doing that.
“Three earlier, seven here, and this one makes ten.” He had an arrow ready and was scanning the area.
Close inspection of the mud- and blood-soaked path revealed a number of bodies on the ground. Most of them were human, but several were goblins. The villagers must have resisted. The monsters appeared to have been killed with hoes or similar farming tools. There were two—no, three more—goblin corpses.
“The final count is thirteen, then.”
Goblin Slayer went around kicking each of the bodies to be sure they were dead. One of the corpses dropped a dagger; he picked it up and put it in his belt. He wasn’t discriminating when it came to weapons. A single stone could kill a goblin. Even barehanded, there were ways. Still, there were times when a real weapon was the decisive factor. It was important to collect whenever the opportunity arose.
“We said there were five or six in the square, as I recall.”
“That would make eighteen or nineteen total, right?” Priestess had finished her prayers; she stood up, brushing the dust from her knees.
Goblin Slayer’s expression was hidden behind his helmet, but Priestess, for her part, looked confused. “Not quite twenty…”
“I don’t like the way they’re keeping all their hostages in one place, either. Nor do I like how the corpses of the villagers who fought back appear unmolested.”
Priestess put a finger thoughtfully to her lips, then murmured, “It’s not very…goblin-like, is it?”
Many things had happened in caves and ruins and other deep places that she didn’t want to recall. But whenever and wherever goblins overcame their enemies, they tended to have their sport with them right then and there. They saw such places as their nests, so to speak. Territory where they could relax. And the more someone fought back, the more violent and cruel the goblins became.
Goblins were cunning and cowardly, mean and vicious, and above all they were loyal to their appetites. They probably didn’t even know what it meant to put off gratifying their own desires. For them to take hostages on enemy ground, and then continue looting without laying a hand on their captives…
“Do you suppose there’s another ogre or dark elf behind this?”
“I don’t know,” Goblin Slayer said. “It could just be goblins.”
He spoke in a manner very characteristic of him; for some reason, Priestess found this reassuring. Goblin Slayer was a little twisted, a little strange, a mite bizarre, and certainly stubborn. She had often been in a great deal of danger during her year with him. And sometimes, she felt that she couldn’t leave him alone or that he was hopeless.
“You might be right,” she said, and her voice was very gentle. But then…
“Huh…?”
Something tickled her nose, a barely detectable odor on the wind. A sweet, stimulating aroma much like alcohol.
“He must be using Stupor,” she said.
“So he decided to put the hostages and the goblins all to sleep.” Goblin Slayer looked around, then toward the town square, where the smell was presumably coming from. Indeed: smoke was rising from the area, too much to have been caused by anything but magic.
“Very efficient.”
“Ha… Ah-ha-ha-ha…” A tight smile came over Priestess’s face, and she looked away.
Nothing more efficient than putting an entire nest to sleep. Sure…
She thought the words but didn’t say them.
§
“Orcbolg, I thought you’d never get here!”
“Did you?”
High Elf Archer had her little chest puffed out; Goblin Slayer answered her with a hint of annoyance. When he and Priestess had arrived, the town square was already in his party’s hands.
All the goblins’ loot had been piled up around the hostages. The villagers themselves, dozens of them gathered in the center of the square, were still asleep, but as far as Goblin Slayer could see, no one was hurt. Having confirmed this, he nodded once.
Next, he turned his attention to the goblin corpses.
“Six of ’em here for you.” Dwarf Shaman had dragged the bodies to one spot and was now wiping his hands with a look of disgust. “Aagh! Gods above, but goblins do stink.”
“Are you sure?”
“Sure they stink or sure they’re dead? The answer’s yes, in any case. All the ones my spell hit anyway. How’re you doing, Scaly?”
“Mm.” Lizard Priest, who was still watching vigilantly on the other side of the square, nodded gravely. “I took three apart with my claws and fangs. Mistress ranger shot three with her bow. Six between us. No mistake, I believe.”
“I see. Nineteen, then,” Goblin Slayer muttered, reaching into the mound of corpses. He was checking whether any of the dead goblins had been carrying a sword.
He found one and extracted it, checking the blade, and when he found it was acceptable, he put it in his sheath. At last he seemed to calm down.
“Uh, hey, Orcbolg. Where’s the girl?” High Elf Archer’s complaint from earlier seemed to be forgotten. When she said the girl, she could mean only one person.
“I sent her to bring the child.”
“Do you think she’ll be all right?”
“Yes.” Goblin Slayer nodded. “I don’t think there’ll be any issues. That’s been my experience, at least.”
He looked once more at the villagers. He located the person who looked both the oldest and the best dressed and strode over to him.
“Are you the village chief?”
“Er, well, yes. Who are all of you…?” He looked at Goblin Slayer, suspicion multiplying the wrinkles in an already elderly face.
Goblin Slayer answered by showing his level tag.
“We’re adventurers.”
“Adventurers… And you’re Silver-ranked…”
The village headman blinked several times, then understanding entered his eyes. “Could you be the Goblin Slayer…?”
“Yes,” Goblin Slayer murmured, evoking a shout from the headman.
“Oh-ho! I am so, so glad you came! Thank you! Thank you…!”
The grateful old man took Goblin Slayer’s hand in his own two hands, which looked like gnarled tree branches. His hands and arms, once built up by farmwork, no longer had their former girth or strength. Yet Goblin Slayer could certainly feel the handshake as the man moved his hand up and down.
“There are some things I want to ask you.”
“Certainly. Anything.”
“First of all, do you have an herbalist or healer in your village? A cleric of some kind? One capable of miracles.”
“Ahem… We rely on visiting priests when we need a cleric. As for an herbalist, well, we have one…” The headman looked apologetic. Perhaps he thought the adventurers would ask for some payment, or at least support. “But she’s only a young woman. She became our medicine woman just recently, when her parents died in an epidemic. She isn’t…”
“I understand,” Goblin Slayer said immediately, as if this were perfectly natural. “We’ll help care for the wounded. My party—” He paused for a second. “—has two clerics.”
“Wha…?”
“I’m sorry to say I can’t spare any potions.” He tapped his item pouch. The little bottles inside rattled. “If what you say about your medicine woman is true, I doubt she’ll be of much help. We can only offer you some miracles and first aid.”
When Goblin Slayer asked, “Does this upset you?” the headman shook his head vigorously. The suspicion in his eyes had turned first to amazement and then to respect.
Wandering minstrels told wondrous tales of an adventurer who rushed to the aid of any village that was attacked by goblins; in their songs, this hero was well-spoken and beautiful. Had there been even a shred of truth in what they sang?
“Ha-ha-ha! I see now why you prevented me from creating a Dragontooth Warrior,” Lizard Priest said, approaching the two of them.
“Frontier people are superstitious,” Goblin Slayer said. “Especially about bones.”
“How thoughtful of you.”
“I was the same way, once.”
Lizard Priest rolled his eyes in his head by way of acknowledgment. “True. Naga or no, many might believe that only a necromancer could control a skeleton warrior.” Then he said, “We must classify the injured by the severity of their wounds,” and with a wave of his tail, he was off.
The lizardmen had always been fighters. As a race, they often made for superior medics.
“I’m surprised,” High Elf Archer muttered, watching the exchange from a distance. She had her bow in her hands at last and was scanning the area, but she was trying hard to keep Goblin Slayer in the corner of her vision.
He was seated among the villagers now, tending to them with items he took out of his bag. He was bandaging wounds with herbs that would stop bleeding and neutralize poison, applying pressure to the injuries. Even here, he seemed somehow different.
“I’m sorry, thank you so much.” Beside him, a woman in robes was bowing her head—the medicine woman they’d spoken of, perhaps.
High Elf Archer’s pointy ears twitched, and a catlike smile came over her face. “It turns out Orcbolg really can hold a conversation, when he wants to.”
Beside her, Dwarf Shaman stroked his beard and nodded. “Well, Beard-cutter is the most well-known of all of us.” Unlike his elf companion, who was on guard duty, with the fighting over, the dwarf had next to nothing to do.
Not that he was unhelpful. He didn’t know first aid, but he walked around with many little items that served as catalysts for his magic. One of them was fire wine, which he described as “good for drinking and good for healing.” It was a powerful spirit, which also made it an excellent disinfectant. He had given a jar of it to the medicine woman, who had accepted it with profuse thanks, to the shaman’s distinct embarrassment. The way of the dwarves was to remember debts and gratitude as well as grudges while not sweating the little things.
“Goblin Slayer, the most beloved adventurer on the frontier… Isn’t that the song that made you recruit him?”
“Well, yeah, sure. But it turns out the song and the reality don’t have much in common…” High Elf Archer puffed out her cheeks in displeasure as she thought back on the ballad she had heard.
It said he was made of the sternest stuff, that he was taciturn and loyal. A man without greed, who wouldn’t spurn even the smallest reward. When goblins appeared, he would go to even the most remote and rustic places to meet them, and his sword would slay them all. He was held up almost as if he were a saint or a Platinum rank.
“But when you really think about it… He does get along really well with that girl at the Guild.”
“They say those who don’t know the true situation are quick to jealousy. It’s the same everywhere.” Dwarf Shaman glanced up at the elf with a teasing smile. “So you really shouldn’t envy her just because she puts to shame that anvil you call a chest.”
He could practically hear the anger seize High Elf Archer’s face.
“After all, unlike a certain cleric girl, elves take a century or two to develop!”
“Oooh, I can’t believe you said that! You great wine barrel of a—!”
“Ho-ho-ho-ho! Among dwarves, a nice figure is a requirement for a proper man!”
And they were off and arguing, the same as usual—but it wasn’t a sign that they had let their guards down. Dwarf Shaman hadn’t taken his hand off his bag of catalysts, and High Elf Archer’s ears were still moving, listening. She heard the two approaching sets of footsteps.
One was a child, the other the familiar footfalls of Priestess. High Elf Archer knew all this full well.
“Big Siiiiiis!”
“Oh…!”
A glow came over the face of the medicine woman, who had been moving among the wounded. The little girl came running to her, and the medicine woman caught her with both hands, hugging her to her chest. They both burst into tears, paying no heed to the eyes around them.
Goblin Slayer watched this in silence, until at length, he looked away. He could no longer look because Priestess, who had gone to get the child, had a bright smile on her face for some reason.
“What is it?” he asked.
She squinted a little at the blunt question and replied innocently, “Heh-heh. Oh, nothing… I was just thinking you looked…happy.”
“Is that so?”
“Yes, it is.”
“Is that so………?”
Goblin Slayer checked to make sure his helmet was still in good condition. There was no smile on that visor.
“Well, fine. See to the treatment of the villagers. And the funerals.”
“The funerals…” Priestess put a thin, pale finger to her lips, thinking for just a second. “The only funerary rites I know are those of the Earth Mother. Do you think it’ll be all right?”
“I doubt they’ll care. So long as it’s the ritual of a god of order.”
“Okay. Leave it to me,” Priestess responded promptly, then she looked around and moved off, holding her sounding staff. “Sorry I’m late!”
“Ah, you’ve come.” Lizard Priest, tending to an injury with his rough, scaled hand, turned his head on his long neck to look at her.
“Yes,” she said with a firm nod and began pulling bandages and ointments out of her pack. “I still have one miracle left, so if there are any serious injuries, I can use Minor Heal on them…”
“In that case, I shall leave this patient to you. He seems to have been severely beaten, and all my artifice has done little.”
“All right!”
When she had lived at the Temple, Priestess’s job had been the treatment of wounded adventurers. As she rolled up her sleeves and began bustling among the injured, she projected more authority than her years would suggest.
Goblin Slayer followed her with his eyes, mulling over a question in his mind.
Surely this can’t be the end, but…?
“Orcbolg!”
The entire party looked up at the sharp and clear warning from High Elf Archer.
It must have been watching from the shadow of a barrel. Now, it had jumped out from the shadows and was dashing down the road—a single goblin trying to make his escape.
He ran like a frightened hare; nearly slipping and stumbling, growing ever smaller in the distance.
But only for a moment.
“Pixies, pixies, hurry, quickly! No treats for you—I just need tricksies!”
Dwarf Shaman intoned the spell Bind, and a rope wrapped itself around the fleeing goblin like a snake. It caught him around the legs and sent him crashing to the ground.
This was all the opening High Elf Archer needed. “You thought we’d let you get away?!” In a motion dramatic enough for a painting, she drew the great bow off her back and jumped. From barrel, to wall, and then into space, she took leap after leap, aiming at her target.
“So it was twenty…!”
That was when Goblin Slayer drew an arrow from his own quiver. “Don’t kill him! We want him to take the poison home and spread it!”
High Elf Archer reached up and grabbed the arrow out of the sky in an acrobatic movement. An instant later, the arrow whistled off, looking like a beam of light. The elf landed on the ground at the same moment as, in the distance, the goblin tumbled. How she had loaded, drawn, and fired the bow in that time, no one knew. It was truly a skill so advanced that it looked like magic.
“Happy now?” She returned her oaken bow to her back as she landed.
“Yes. But…” Goblin Slayer was almost muttering to himself, his gaze fixed on the goblin in the distance. He had pulled the shaft out of his shoulder and cut the rope around his legs and was running off again. He was heading north—toward the snowy mountain from where an an icy wind blew.
“…this is not over yet.”
That was something the whole party knew well.
The goblins had gathered the villagers in the square because they had wanted to go looting; they gathered their spoils in the square, as well. And yet, they hadn’t touched the women. That meant they had been planning to take them back to their nest. The twenty goblins who attacked the village were only an advance unit. There were more of them, though there was no knowing whether they would launch a fresh attack or simply withdraw.
Goblin Slayer completed his calculations and issued his conclusion without reluctance:
“As soon as our spells have been replenished, we go on the attack.”
He knelt before the village headman seated on the ground, then looked him in the eye. The headman’s face was drawn at the thought of another battle, but Goblin Slayer only said, “I want to request preparations for a night attack, as well as a place to rest for a night. You don’t mind?”
“Wh-what? N-not at all! If we can do anything to help you, just let me know…”
“Then tell me about the party of adventurers that came before us. And do you have any trackers in this village?”
“Y-yes, so we do. Just one… He’s young, but he’s here.”
“I need to know the geography of the mountain. I want a map, even a simple one.”
The headman was nodding eagerly, but then he seemed to think of something, and an obsequious smile came over his face. “Oh, but… When it comes to a reward, we can’t…”
“The goblins are more important,” Goblin Slayer said flatly. Ignoring the stunned headman, he stared at the mountains to the north. Somewhere behind the veil of clouds, the sun had already sunk behind the peaks, and the fierce wind carried hints of night.
“As soon as everything’s ready, we will go and slay them.”
§
Thankfully, all things considered, damage to the village was minimal. Of course there were those who had been injured or killed fighting against the goblins. Some houses had been torched, others smashed—naturally. But the adventurers had arrived before either the loot or the captured women were carried off to the nest. So perhaps it was for the better. Or at 