“I am telling you to go have fun.” His voice brooked no argument.
She looked at him, taken aback by his sharp tone.
Her uncle was unmoving. When he got like this, his opinion was no more likely to change than a mountain stone. He had spent ten years raising her, and she understood this without his saying anything.
“Huh? But… Um…”
“You’re still a tender age. How old are you? I want to hear you say it.”
“Um, I’m…eighteen…” She nodded assiduously. “Almost nineteen.”
“Then it’s not your duty to work from dawn till dusk every day.”
Cow Girl racked her brain for some response.
…Huh? Why am I so against going out?
The thought flashed across her mind and vanished. This wasn’t the time.
“B-but, what about the money…”
“Fortunately, we’re no serfs. Our lives aren’t dictated by a lack of resources.”
“Well, true, but…”
It was no use. Her feeble resistance summarily subdued, Cow Girl was at a loss for words.
Well, now what? The dishes were cleaned, and she had no other cards to play.
She puttered about the kitchen for a while before finally slumping into a seat across from her uncle.
“You don’t have to worry about me.” He was kind as ever, as though he were speaking to a small child.
Cow Girl pursed her lips—he didn’t have to talk to her that way—but she didn’t say anything. Maybe that was itself childish. In that case…
“Go and have some fun.” As he watched her, his craggy face suddenly softened and relaxed. “A young girl working every waking minute on the farm? Surely there’s some girlish thing or other you want to do.”
“I wonder…”
Cow Girl didn’t really know.
Girlish things?
What would that be? Getting dressed up? Eating sweets? All of her ideas seemed airy and vague.

She had no cart, and he wasn’t there—it was just her by herself.
She found her pace unsteady even though she was only going to town on a road she knew well.
How did she normally walk on this road? She ended up feeling awfully puzzled.
And then, weaving her way between adventurers and merchants as they came and went, she passed through the great gate and into town.
Cow Girl smiled wryly as her feet began carrying her toward the Adventurers Guild, normally the first place she would go. Consciously overriding her subconscious, she went straight instead, into town, toward the plaza.
There was chatter in the air, merchants’ voices, children playing, mothers calling, adventurers chatting with one another. Burying herself in the sounds, Cow Girl sat vacantly on a random curb. She watched a boy and a girl, perhaps about ten years old, run by. She followed them with her eyes and exhaled.
Now that I think about it… “Do I have any friends…?”
There was no one left whom she’d known since she was young. She had moved ten years ago, and for five of those years she had been absorbed in only what was before her eyes.
It’s a little late to go down memory lane now.
The way she’d been back then, she was lucky he had called out to her as he shuffled along.
There had still been horns on his steel helmet then, and her hair had been considerably longer.
For the five years after that, her head had been full of him. She had been altogether unable to just have fun.